In this video, I'm going to tell you
seven things most small creators do that
can literally get your entire channel
banned on YouTube. And making these
innocent mistakes can mean that all of
your hard work, your videos, and your
progress gone in a second. If you're
serious about growing on YouTube, you
need to avoid these. Let's break them
down for you right now.
Firstly, you may have seen the rise of
small creators gathering in the comment
sections of my videos and other people's
videos too where they basically ask
people to sub to their channel. And you
might even be one of these yourself.
Now, look, I get it. Many of you are
looking for a way to get your channel
out there and bag a few new subscribers,
which is absolutely fine if that's what
you want to do. However, if you are
getting involved in these, you need to
be extremely careful because if you do
this wrong, which a lot of you do, you
will get your channel banned. Here's an
email I got from one of my subscribers a
few weeks ago. She was just another
regular small channel and she saw that
everyone was subscribing to each other
in the comment section. So, she thought
she'd get involved by commenting the
word subscribed to loads of people's
comments. What she didn't realize though
is that YouTube actually blocked her
channel because it thought she was a bot
because she was spamming loads of
comments. Her entire channel was removed
because YouTube didn't like the fact
that she kept commenting on these
threads telling them that she subscribed
to them. All of her videos gone and it
took us weeks of working together to
contacting YouTube to try and get her
account reinstated. Like, I mean, feel
free to pause this video if you want to
read the whole email, but this should
just highlight just how easy it is to
get yourself banned if you do this. So
my advice here is if you are going to
get involved in these, don't spam the
same comment over and over again. You
need to be unique and add value to the
group or just stay away from it
altogether. Now the next common mistake
small channels need to avoid making is
adding too many hashtags to your videos.
And this applies to shorts too. Now you
might be thinking, but what's the big
deal? Like surely hashtags aren't that
dangerous. Well, YouTube literally has
this on their website. It says
overtagging. If a video or a playlist
has more than 60 hashtags, we'll ignore
each hashtag on that content.
Overtagging may result in the removal of
your video from your uploads or from
searches. So, they're literally saying
if you try and stuff as many hashtags in
as possible onto your videos, YouTube
will remove them and your account will
end up getting shadowbanned because the
algorithm would just assume you're a bot
account. So, I'd personally recommend
just using anywhere from three to six
hashtags. I mean, you can use it to 59,
but to be honest, I think it's much more
worth your time to pick out three to six
highly targeted hashtags related
directly to your niche. You'll see the
most growth this way. And just to be
clear, hashtags and video tags are two
completely different things. When it
comes to tags, there are also some very
strict rules you need to follow with
these two, but I'll discuss that later
on in the video. Now, the next mistake
that would get you banned is using other
people's content without their
permission. Now, I know a lot of you
will have seen YouTube experts,
including me, telling you to use a
tactic called viral replication, where
you basically look out into your niche,
identify successful videos, and then use
them as inspiration for your own. Now,
this tactic can work wonders for small
channels, but only if you do it
properly. And if you do it wrong, it
will lead to you receiving copyright
strikes or worse, having your account
taken off the platform altogether. Now,
I've seen many small channels copy viral
videos but barely make any changes
whatsoever from the original. So, if
you're someone who uses a viral
replication strategy, you need to make
sure that the content itself is actually
your own words and your own work. Like,
don't just copy the transcript of
someone's video and then use it as your
own. Like, I promise you, YouTube will
ban you for it. And on the topic of
copyright, you even need to be careful
of images you're using for your
thumbnails, too. Like if you're taking
images for thumbnails like off the web
from Google or somewhere you don't have
permission to the owner of that image
can write a formal copyright complaint
and I have seen small channels being
removed simply because of their
thumbnails. So always make sure that you
have permission to use images in your
thumbnails as well if you take them off
the web. But now, let's also talk about
your overall online safety now. Because
as a content creator, you're pretty much
putting yourself out there on the entire
internet for everyone to see. And that
means you'll be interacting with all
sorts of people. Some good, some not so
good. And if you're not careful, you
could leave the door open to some
serious problems into your life. And
this is where small channels need to be
a bit more mindful with what you're
doing on the platform. Now, the first
thing you need to consider when
protecting your actual YouTube account
is don't use the same email on your
channel description page as the one tied
to your actual YouTube account. This is
because if someone gets their hands on
that email, they could potentially
misuse it to cause you trouble with your
YouTube account. And it also makes it
much easier for people to gain access to
your channel if they're determined
enough. So, the solution here is to
create a completely separate Gmail
account that you use for public use.
This would be the email that you put on
your about me like channel description.
It's the one that brands, fans, and
potential collaborations will contact
you through. This keeps things
professional and more importantly keeps
your personal YouTube account safe and
secure. And I think it would actually
genuinely surprise you at just how much
of your personal information is floating
around online. And I don't just mean
your name or your email. I'm talking
about phone numbers, location data, and
even the websites you visit and how long
you spend on them. And the scary part is
you probably never gave permission for
most of it. And that's because there are
hundreds of shady companies out there
called data brokers. And their entire
business model is collecting your
personal data, packaging it up, and
selling it to advertisers, scammers, or
whoever is willing to pay for it. Now,
as a YouTuber, especially if you're just
starting out, you're already exposing a
lot of yourself just by uploading
videos. But once your email is out there
too, and once you've signed up for a few
tools or made your contact info public,
your digital footprint starts growing
fast and it becomes harder and harder to
stay in control of what's being shared
about you. And that's where Incogn comes
in. They're an online privacy tool that
I've personally been using. And what
they do is they contact those shady data
companies on your behalf and force them
to delete all of your information. Think
of it as like having a digital bodyguard
who just wipes your name off dozens of
sketchy databases from across the web.
And here's the best part. Once you sign
up, Incogn keeps working for you every
month. So, as your info shows up in new
places, Incogn will keep requesting
removals so you don't have to. It's
super easy to get started. It takes just
a few minutes and honestly, it gives me
peace of mind knowing that someone is
fighting to keep my personal data off
the internet. So, if you're serious
about protecting your online presence as
a YouTuber, I highly recommend checking
them out. Take your personal data back
with
incogn. Okay, then. So, the second thing
you need to consider when thinking about
the safety of your YouTube account is
connecting your channel to too many
apps. And this is another big mistake I
see small channels make, and it's where
they're connecting their YouTube channel
to way too many third party apps. And I
get it. Look, there are so many new AI
softwares out there right now. And some
of these tools might be things like
analytics dashboards, editing software,
or even AI tools that help your channel
grow faster. But every single app you
have connected to your Google account is
like opening a tiny door to your
channel. And the more doors you have
open, the easier it is for someone to
sneak in. Now, here's where it gets a
little bit risky. Like, even if one of
those third party tools gets
compromised, or worse, if it's actually
just a scam tool designed to look legit,
but really just harvest your data, your
entire account could be vulnerable. And
that means someone else could gain
access to your user channel. It could
change your login info or even delete
everything you've worked so hard to
build. So, here's a fix. Go to
google.com/acount. Click on security.
Scroll down to third party apps with
account access and start removing
anything you don't absolutely need. Like
if it's not essential to your channel or
if you don't recognize it, get rid of
it. Like on my channels, I only ever
have a couple of reputable brands on
there that I know I can trust. And you
should only be connecting to tools that
you 100% trust, too. And this is just
another simple way to protect your
channel from potential threats. And the
final point of the channel safety topic
before we talk about how tags can be
dangerous. I want to first talk about
the most common way I see small creators
get their channels hacked. And this is
clicking on dodgy links in emails. As
you grow on YouTube as a small channel,
you'll start getting loads of emails
that look like they're from brands
wanting to collaborate. But not all of
them are real. Some of them are just
fishing scams. They'll send you what
looks like a normal business email,
maybe even with a fake YouTube logo or
official sounding name and ask you to do
things like review their product or
check out that media kit or even
something like someone has shared a
video link with you. But the moment you
click on a dodgy link, you could be
taken to things like a fake login page
designed to steal your data or you could
unknowingly download malware that gives
them access to your Google account. And
I've seen channels with thousands of
subscribers completely wiped out because
of one wrong click. So, here's how to
stay safe. Never click on links and
emails unless you're absolutely sure
it's from a trusted source. Like, double
check the sender's email address. Look
out for weird grammar or formatting. And
if something feels off, just trust your
gut. And if a brand reaches out and
you're unsure, just Google them. Check
out if they've worked with other
creators or even ask other YouTubers in
that space. And also, look, if you're
offered a brand deal that seems way too
good to be true, like $5,000 for a
30-cond mention, it probably is a bit
dodgy. So, just always make sure you
verify it before you click on anything.
And lastly, the final point touches more
on your actual video upload process,
which is tag stuffing. Now, if we go
back to the statement made from YouTube
that we covered earlier, you'll notice
at the start it said, don't add too many
tags to a single video or playlist. The
more tags you add, the less relevant
they become for viewers or listeners who
are searching. And look guys, this is
important because obviously YouTube
gives us a dedicated space for tags. And
of course, I'd recommend you fill out as
many as you possibly can in that box.
However, I see lots of small channels
try and cram in loads of tags or
keywords into their descriptions as
well, like on top of the hashtags and a
full tags box. Now, I get it. You're
trying to make sure there's plenty of
keywords in there for the algorithm.
However, if YouTube notices that you
keep stuffing in loads of tags and
keywords into your descriptions
unnaturally, you risk having your entire
video being deleted from the platform.
Again, don't just take my word for it.
Also, take YouTube's. They literally
said the following types of content are
not allowed on YouTube. Placing
excessive tags in the video description
tag stuffing rather than placing them as
a tags upon upload. So, there you go.
It's really not a good idea to do that.
So, if this is you, I'd recommend
stopping this as soon as possible. Now,
if you're struggling to grow your small
channel, investing in a YouTube growth
course is going to be one of the
smartest moves you'll ever make. Like,
every top creator has done it, and it's
the ultimate shortcut to success. I've
just launched the YouTube Wealth
Academy. 5 years of everything I've
learned packed into one affordable
course. The value and lessons I share in
my YouTube videos only just scratch the
surface of what I actually teach inside
of the course. Like, you'll be amazed at
just how much detail we actually go
into. And as a thank you for making it
to the end of this video, here's a gift.
Use code 24 hours for $100 off. Links
below.